Day 1 Commands
Basic Things
1. echo ""
2. man <name>
Shortcuts
Ctrl +Alt + T - Terminal
Ctrl + A - Go to the beginning of the line you are currently typing on.
Ctrl + E Go to the end of the line you are currently typing on.
Tab Auto-complete files and directory names.
Ctrl + D Log out of the current shell session, similar to the exit or logout command. In some commands,acts as End of File signal to indicate that a file end has been reached.
Shift + Ctrl + T New Terminal Tab
Shift + Ctrl + W Close current terminal tab
Shift + Ctrl + Q Close entire terminal
Directories
The DOT -
The DOUBLE DOT
Navigational Commands for directories
pwd Get the full path of the current working directory.
cd - Navigate to the last directory you were working in.
cd ~ or just cd Navigate to the current user's home directory.
cd .. Go to the parent directory of current directory (mind the space between cd and .. )
Listing files inside a directory
ls
ls -l List the files and directories in the current directory in long (table) format (It is recommended to use -l with ls for better readability).
ls -ld List information about the directory dir-name instead of its contents.
la -la List all the files including the hidden ones (File names starting with a . are hidden files in Linux).
tree Will generate a tree representation of the file system starting from the current directory.
hostname Display hostname of the system.
who List of all the users currently logged in as a user.
whoami Username of the users logged in at the terminal.
w Display current system status, time, duration, list of users currently logged in on system and other user information.
last Who recently used the system.
last root When was the last time root logged in as user.
Day 2 Commands
r - read - 4
w - write - 2
x - execute - 1
touch - create a text file
cat - view the contents of a file
less - View the content of a file with pager (one screenful at a time)
head - View the first several lines of a file
tail - View the last several lines of a file
vi - edit a text file
mkdir - Create an empty directory
rmdir - delete an empty directory
rm -rf - remove a non-empty directory
rm - remove a file
cp - copy a file
mv - move a file / rename a file
chmod ### filename - change the permissions for a file
ls -s - total size occupied by contents
df -h - check disk space available
cat /proc/cpuinfo - view CPU details
top - display current linux processes
service --status-all - list all running services
passwd - modify password for current user
passwd username - modify password for a user (as root)
useradd username - add a user (as root)
userdel username - remove a user (as root)
userdel -r username - remove user and its home folder (as root)
sudo cat /etc/shadow - view user details
sudo cat /etc/passwd - view password details
sudo cat /etc/group - view group details
users - list all users on computer
groups - list all groups on computer
groups username - list name of groups in which user is present
